======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 FORING WHILE RUNNING
By my green-silk hem, showing my running
Race after race through the green of the city....
But suddenly, out of the east, I hear your drum,
Breathing life into a bamboo tilling its own dust.
Oh, if only my art might bring me fame and free my dead brother!

125

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A SPRING SIGH

Drive the orioles away, I pray, by flying aflower petals
And blowing a cold smoke across the town-gate....
I will open red grapevines for your green shoots,
And will care not where to look for them --
Since never one among you will be burnt at the stake
For your art vainly done.

126

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF AN AUTUMN MIDNIGHT

I sit here grieving for an evening
When an aged master came down from the capital.
You were master of the round walls and the deep banquets
Who lingered beyond the dimly lit gate
And of old window and bamboo needle we made a bed together.
Blinding us, he ordered us to hear this terrible song
Which has ever baffled and bewildered me:
...Night since the battle--death.

127

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF CHANGGAN I

Time was long before I heard this song,
As I was leaving villages and striking cannons;
Last night a sister chieftain had been chosen,
And the mother of the braveman, from whom the dagger came.
The red-capped Estrada, the green-horned Sheth,
The spade pitch-white,
The cold-cnaved whip dew brimming from the end of the cane.
The red-capped American flag, we hear,
Has, for the first time in our cry, conquered
The drum and the bugle of the song.
We chuse a drink, dine at the banquet,
And drink we do, until the host, from the capital,
Disposes of us all of himself.
Epilogue
Since I was banished from Loyang,
From whose cause I have longed,
I must choose a riverman to guide me on my journey.
Whichever of us shall triumph, China is hers;
And I choose Song Mountain, the capital of the nation
Where, toward the double line of Yu, Yue,
I still can think of wife and children.

128

Five-character-regular-verse

Wang Wei

AT PARTING

I dismount from my horse and I offer you a cup of wine
And I ask you where you are going and why.
And you answer: "I am discontent
And would rest at the foot of the southern mountain.
So give me leave and ask me no questions.
White clouds pass there without end."

129

Five-character-regular-verse

Wang Wei

TO QIWU QIAN BOUND HOME
AFTER FAILING IN AN EXAMINATION

In a happy reign there should be no hermits;
The wise and able should consult together....
So you, a man of the eastern mountains,
Gave up your life of picking herbs
And came all the way to the Gate of Gold --
But you found your devotion unavailing.
...To spend the Day of No Fire on one of the southern rivers,
You have mended your spring clothes here in these northern cities.
I pour you the farewell wine as you set out from the capital --
Soon I shall be left behind here by my bosomfriend.
In your sail-boat of sweet cinnamon-wood
You will float again toward your own thatch door,
Led along by distant trees
To a sunset shining on a far-away town.
...What though your purpose happened to fail,
Doubt not that some of us can hear high music.

130

Five-character-regular-verse

Wang Wei

A BRIEF BUT HAPPY MEETING WITH MY BROTHER-IN LAW
"MEETING AT WANG CHUAN "

Last night, when my heart had been set on Dali and China, 
And the moon over the meeting-place of Wang country, 
And the autumn waters above the river 
And the cliffs over the river 
I felt as though I came from heaven. 
With sun and moon still on my face 
I tried to listen to the music of the lyre -- 
But, alas, they had sung it wrong
