======== SAMPLE 1 ========
, while his white horse drags his horse;
His jade-white face is sad and woe is under heaven.
He trails away butterflies; he circles the moon with a hand,
He cuts gold from jade-white hair with a stone foot;
A dragon-beard thunderstruck the earth with an earthquake
And placed the body of a drunk Wizard-General in a ravine;
He named the place of great waste- land and sea- ersatz. 

LOOKING DOWN IN A SPRING-NORTH MOUNTAIN 
ON A TROOPER`S ROBE

Up a spring-shaped tree is a hibiscus-horn; 
A spring-tone canell fills the air with the song of the wind, 
While a thousand winds tune the air with symphonic notes -- 
And yet, here in my mountain hut, 
I hear only the calm river-snow. 

IN MY MOUNTAIN VIEW HOME

When I moved to this mountain, 
the woods were left behind 
And the river just kept on chipping by. 
...There are sofas on the horizon
That tiny pine-trees look like little red flowers. 
I have, therefore, come this far 
To look at the great Roads and the deserted Meninge. 
...In the olden times, peopled by wolves, 
The rugged mountains were full of beasts 
And wild men in careless looks looked toward home. 
There were even pony-races, but they were empty and no money for saddles. 
And I saw a dog coming home. It bolted, 
Bred on its hind legs, its muzzle hidden. 
With furs on its coat, it could only gaily walk. 
And this was before I had masterfitted it 
With a top so as to hide its paws; 
With its fur whitened with flecks of red, 
With its fur whitened with oat bristle, 
With its fur whitened with a taste of jade; 
This fur settled the jatress' quarrel; 
And, though my masterflesh tones down his thoughts, 
I feel as if I were watching a high-flying bird. 

MEMORIES IN EARLY WINTER

South go the wildgesse, for leaves are now falling, 
And the water is cold with a wind from the north. 
I climb to the gate of the merchanties, 
Where butterflies are chanting, I am PUNTING 
For snow has come, and the sun is just now
And the poppy-people are sobbing. 
I stand at the gate of the temple,
Washing clothes for the priest who comes therefrom. 
...The sun has set, and the moon is just now, 
And the spring will close in on the village. 
And I, a stranger, am chanting, 
Soon being a stranger in this western district. 

A NIGHT-MOORING ON THE JIANDE RIVER

Since I left this world in the autumn of last year, 
And go back in ten days, I have found thee sweet: 
Thou sob in the dusk, 
I hear the mountain moon bearing jade. 
Thus I go up the mountain, 
I50 MYERS AT A BORDER-MOUNTAIN

Grass has run wild now by the bend where I turn; 
And vermilion signs the tide vary; 
I look down at the river-lands, 
I see the border-lines of many, 
I chuse listening by the rifts of night. 
...At twilight I left the boundary-stones; 
I see a clear lake,
Two mountain-lines, 
A wide plain, 
A green river, 
An open-air street, 
An ancient wall, 
An ancient bridge, 
Man-made-flocks, flying high, 
Are gathering on the sand, urchasing hay, urchin-eaten. 

PARTING I

There's a girl among you, running toward you from the sky, urchin-eaten. 
She asks why I am here. 
You: I am Nephi. 
She: I see you're all lost in thought. 
...With a lose breath, we say nothing. 
But out of the corner of our eyes, heART FINDED 

There's a girl among you, running toward you from the sky, ART FINDED. 
She: I know something wrong with your silkwork; 
So she runs to you
