======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 PO!
 
A FAREWELL TO HAN SHEN AT ZHANG, PARTING

Mist from the sun, beyond the southern rivers, 
Contrary to every warning, 
The Heavenly Mother's lonely window looks on him. 
But since it is only by chance that he spies spring, 
Why should there be nobody listening? 

A VIEW OF THE HAN SHEN PALACE STAIRCASE

The master bedroom overlooks the studio where her high-pitched song was recorded. 
Her warm hand enters sleep, but not before he has to crawl out of bed. 
She leans on the railing, so that its light waver, 
As if on request she interferes. 
Her drawn-out mind is a wild goose, 
Overdoing it for the moment's worthiness. 

POETIC THOUGHTS ON ANCIENT SITES I

Forlorn in the northeast among wind and dust, 
Drifting in the southwest between heaven and earth, 
Lingering for days and months in towers and terraces at the Three Gorges, 
Sharing clouds and mountains with the costumes of the Five Streams. 
The ancient singers of the south, returning with the play-goer, 
Had their tents to live in and off; 
The later writers of the north, returning with horses, 
Were chaste in their praise of the singers; 
But Rong Tong, the conqueror's great great-grandson, 
Gave his old song the greatest of his youth, 
And played it for twelve years, forgetting guitar. 
He heard strange music playing, sometimes in the evening, 
And strange songs of the wind coming down the river. 
...Romantic, musical, advanced, he progressed. 
Scents, even, in his song of the Sun, 
Did not fit the description of stringed instruments. 
Dead and gone, they were like shadows in the sunlight. 
To write music different from the others was like dancing with an eyes for beauty, 
Their music passing for the clean song of the water and sky. 
Romantic, musical, advanced, he went. 
But no words could convey the joy he felt, 
How nature was punishing him with continual motions, 
And every time he turned the guitar across the water, 
The watersick tone of its strings hurt my heart even more. 



A FAREWELL AT FENGJI STATION TO GENERAL YAN

Here, where you spent your five years' exile, 
To find a new home in this desolate region, 
Do you not know that, at the Ruler's Court, 
Every morning the people of this region gather 
And shake their cups to pay their respects? 


ON LEAVING THE TOMB OF PREMIER FANG

Having to travel back now from this far place, 
I dismount beside your lonely tomb. 
The ground where I stand is wet with my tears; 
The sky is dark with broken clouds.... 
I who played in the Kopbalist band 
Are here with you for the very first time. 
Therefore leave my station and return to your village 
As cloud and dust have ceased to be a part of the world. 

A PARTING

Friend, I have watched you down the mountain 
Till now in the dark I close my thatch door.... 
Grasses return again green in the spring, 
But O my Prince of Friends, do you? 

A SONG OF AN AUTUMN NIGHT

Under the crescent moon a light autumn dew 
Has chilled the robe she will not change -- 
And she touches a silver lute all night, 
Afraid to go back to her empty room.

A SIGH FROM A STAIRCASE OF INN

She opens the flimsycase and sits in the twilight, 
Looking over the clear lake and through the fog.... 
The cold river-reef is a sharp chain of mountains in the
Between and Beyondness, 
And yet she is still, still in Annandale. 
Her clothes are on the first day of spring, 
And she thinks of her husband in the warm moonlight. 
Her balcony, her curtains, are the stars of her whole life. 
She is a part of a very special pair -- 
And yet all night long she tries to forget -- 
How she thinks of her husband. 

A SIGH FROM A STAIRCASE OF INN

The autumn night is clear and cold in the outside world, 
And clear in the grasses in the
