======== SAMPLE 1 ========
y. The white dust was gone, and the mountain sun brighten'd the grey sky.
...There was another wind, a third, a four-pins- of the river,
Which, like the winds of Tartar water, were now turning grey
And withering away at the foot of the Nineveh mountains.
...We rode next morning up the winding mountain;
And, though we fell down on our faces over the top,
We found that our grasses and our our our were not enough
After the ten per cent we had spent on wine and we could bring more,
We reached the boundary line -- the one that led back the Yellow Star.
And although these four points were of very little help
To those who lived in these four corners of the earth,
The Eighth-month came again, and we went on...
Still we found our way among bushes, among the leaves of tall trees.
Our journey was light, as if we could make it to Helena.
...But we heard bones and dust in the ditches --
And we reached the boundary post -- a hundred paces from where we stood.
Where are these five paces? -- In an indestructible pit.
And we wondered if we were still living side by side,
And if even the southern river should be curving south.
We reasoned with a bamboo-trail for shelter --
And soon we were returning thousands of kilometres --
Still alone and apart from home.
And then, through a gateway in the thick forest,
The sound of our complaint centred our homesick thoughts.
...What am I to do but be an empty shell?
A wood-cutter by the waterfall
Flies with a moustache and by a bamboo chainmail....
And people who can read, without distinction
But are in many parts ashamed.

089

Folk-song-styled-verse
Feng Jiao

STAYING AT A BUDDHIST RESIDENT HOME

When I was growing up at Zhejiang, the region was called the Great Bamboo Range. Mountain bamboos with nuts rippled by the palms, and thousands of reeds mounded the grass;
But now a bamboo growing on a stream divides the forest, and fishermen' eyes fainting
And night-gaunts gather at the shore to watch it from their nets.
...I came from a family of farmers in Qinjiang. After I left the district, I started my own firm. The clothes I had grown, farmed at a temple, ended up on my tipplers.
I was a student at Zhejiang State University -- the only one with a Chinese wife.
...What then can be said of the way in which I live, as a Taoist, a Sun Buddhist, a Han Chinese, and a Dan Wu man? --
So much for any advice I can give you from here on.
My office hours are nine o'clock in the morning. I have chicken loin with me from bed.
And the very thought of picking it up dawns me on Mountain Flower Pavilion.
The flower, in bright gold, lights and magnifies bright objects.
And so it begins a new cycle of different ages.
The great white sun shines on mountains whiteder still.
People, returning from the war-zone, wear green sleeves everywhere.
Rivers, cities, rivers - all of them, because of my firm faith,
Beside me now, growing old quickly.

080

Folk-song-styled-verse

Meng Jiao

LOOKING CLOUD ON A RAIN TOING TERM
OF KINDFU

In the tenth year of Miao Zong you leave. Are you sure you want to go back?
It's a hard road, you wonder, as you look toward home.
I look toward my window and I see fog ahead.
...The tall grasses that run through Changan become narrow and bare;
Then, with a long sigh, I turn to find the tinged wall gone;
And then, riding up from the water, I find only the bare bones
Stale-white and pale with the black of the sea,
As though the whole mountain-wall, the outer fibre,
Had been knocked down in a pool of sand.
...I turn and see a wild deer fleeing before me --
Whose centre is a stone-hut above the water;
And I watch the yellowish-white sun lighten its armour
And the stone-humps in its eye become powder, like a shadow....
I think of Jia Yi and Nanjing. Jia Yi is tall, Nanjing tall.
Can I wish you the best of everything?....
The old fort at Jingzhou is a temple of
