======== SAMPLE 1 ========


When the sun is full
And soldiers cry in the evening,
Fleet horses gallop about,
Their livery white with victory,
And unicorn-horns glimmer in the moon.
...Where are my boys and my girl?

080

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A GREEN RETREAT

After serving long years,
Du Fu has finally made a true reat....
He is reaping the fruits of hard work
Which, like the fruits of much work,
Gives him a new spirit of adventure
And a new purpose in his life.
...Rivers and mountains are green and well protected,
And happy days finally come, when all mountain and lake animals join.
...Our troops' horses are returning,
And happy camels are in the sky.

081

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A TERRACE OF A VICE-PREFECT

When the Imperial City was built, temples and palaces were in ruins.
Their great towers failed and their great walls dented,
And Shu forces opened wide-reaching war,
While Tao and Shang were at the same moment strengthening.
...Fragrant grasses are gone, and the blood-stained teeth bone-
And, with it comes new grief, for whoever has a son
Must suffer for his blood to spill again....
Vain people, who had once been loyal
Are now dejected and turn away from the Emperor.
...Rivers and mountains are green, and the sky grows cloudy
And the moon grows cloudy with rain,
Because of the Emperor's great favour.

082

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

A WALK IN THE NIGHT

In a sandy road leading up to a low wood
I lean against a low wall, open my eyes, and behold
Upcoming wildgeeseflies drifting down skyward
In a broad, flat line, ten thousand yards;
And then I am told to follow following the moon
Where the flies come from.

083

Five-character-regular-verse

Du Fu

AT A SOUTH-MOON LAND

I drive along a mountain path,
Toward a hidden place --
The quietness of the water, The cloud of unnumbered solar years;
And, following the flow of the lake, I see a green place
Where when long ago a fisherman has gone,
He knows his way home.
...Rivers and mountains are green and well protected
And Shu and Han are at the same time reaping
The fruits of hard work, able to endure
And very few people are dying with hunger.
...When I turn round and look back,
I find a long path now for me
And a narrow shadow for memorial to me
Whose footsteps I will follow
When dawn comes and my boat is dead
On a quiet day down the mountain,
When my white cloud has fallen and no one is with me
When my lonely carring-trees have withered
And petals are flying back home from the green hills
...Through mist and fog I think of flying home,
While the stars grow dim in the west
And the cloudy mountains grow pale in the east
And I wonder why I should have to go so long
If I were travelling alone,
Or, like some of my fellows,
Iain Bertrand
EPISODE XI

The River of Stars

On the very edge of space-time,
I have come so far that no other way out
But to return with a loud clattering of wings.
...I remember somebody saying to one another:
"Far, far away,
Where is the quietness of the air,
Until something dangerous overtakens
Its lone follower, and sends him spinning to and fro
In a shower of flying colours."
I thought to myself -- Oh, not to part from this mess!
But then I remembered somebody saying --
"I have come so far, that no other way out
But to return with a loud clattering of wings."

084

Five-character-regular-verse

Bai Juyi

AN OLD DAY IN THE BRITISH TAR

At the far end of the village, far behind the palace,
I heard a green, windy bugle breaking the wall.
And though the world forgot the cold sun,
For the autumn moon is far too late,
And all my old friends, dead or alive,
Are gone, at last, with what little weather there is
And settle in a little hollow in the hill,
Where some garden has a bed of straw,
And others a little pavilion,
And sleep through the next morning
