======== SAMPLE 1 ========


The bride's wearing a dunce dunce.
She brings a bride in,
Wives hope and devotion,
Lives and dies if she lets out a sound of heart.
Her husband, by her,
May spare no one.

A bridegroom might be willing
To wear silk shrouds a bride would wear,
But not for the wickers, we're told.
Why should a girl of worth wear silk when she could wear silk herself?
The bride, with a purse of jade,
Gives a only to sister sister a token of her worth?
The jade fan flaves her way,
But she is lost beyond her range of motion,
And not evenescrusted beyond landing.

A girl of the common herd,
With husband and mistress, would be nothing,
Not even touched with a plough.
The jade and the dung help her hand
She chooses to use her precious.
The purse she sews, she strips, she thoroughly cleanses.
She sways from open window the scent of her love,
Hears the lute and string,
And her tears are as when desiring,
O my god, oh oh oh

A girl of the common herd,
With husband and mistress,
Would be nothing,
Not even a plough.

Her tears are as between three lovers
Yet they are not worth a girl's life,
Because it is not in her nature
To be loved.

She lives with men of her past,
Yet she lives with them as she goes,
Who knows what course of action might be pursued?

The girl of the common herd,
Has no notion how old she really is,
But goes to her walks by the old-paper-covered wall.

She sits on the dust, she seems to forget,
While her husband, unaware of her sad countenance,
Wolves in fur coats browse the floor.

Her shy brother, sister, aunt, neighbour, neighbour's favourite,
She sits beside you, times both long,
In a sort of dream that is like that of the eye,
But beyond the dream comes a murmur.
You have your fairith, sit down. You are all alone.
For all the girl has gone to her room to-night,
You see the fading stars, the fading flowers.

She sits by the counter-clock-cube-shaking a snap.
She thinks her heart is at a loss,
It is all but too late to save her life.
She tries to read the note, she urges the streak to pass.
The blue of the sail is sinking in the deep cress.
The warm muslin of the willow-trees forms a parting line.
She gathers the rest nothing to heart-then suddenly and mysteriously,
She sits thinking of those little islands off the coast
She has the sensation of going and finding,
There where already they are quiet places,
And where before they are solemn,
She thinks of the coming of the phoenix.

Her brother-in law, his great wealth earmarked to spend
Yet gives his heart of gold to spare in the mountainspanic.
His fourteen horses, ten thousand of them,
They all are sent in advance.
The day goes and the time is as yet unsparing;
Yet there is something offrelying
Some horseman does in a scythe to dirty his horses.
The day goes and the time is as yet unsparing
That all the horses on the plain come out toward their pasture,
That the wife of a collector, likely of high position,
Her devotion unafraid
Of riding with such a man at her heels.
Yet there was a time when mare came with a purse of horses,
And the collector's horses were homeward bound.
There was a time when a girl was beguiled
With the aim of lusturing ivory skin ornaments.
There was a time when women came to be painted mirrors
Of bronze in their brooch and the bridegroom's silk pillow.
There was a time when people dressed in the vestments of the prince were dumped,
And when the pecan-leaves were being moved several feet from their place of rest.
As the years went by, their sacrifice an stone melode grew out of their skin;
And once they had meloded the marble, they laid their heads down
Like phoenixes onTO Hercules for the highly special occasion.
Hearing a wife's story told to her husband in silence,
This talkative man suddenly Emilia here for XXXV

A MESSAGE TO CENSOR LU XUZHOU

I am going to China. I am going to Xiades.
I
