======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 heavenly,
Where is the quiet lake, the spring woods protected by a strong wall?
And where are the spring temples protected by a strong wall?
North of this cloud
Where willows harmonize the wind
And valleys cup to damp hills
And nowhere is her face hidden by a rain-
She is the centre of all, the eye beholding everything?
...O Prince of Friends, how gladly I may be hidden
In this shadowy place, darkening forever?
Prince, you neglected talent, I am racing!
I sprang up from the dead, to save the day.
Why spend my life here with the dead?
Why spend my life here with the living?
Prince, you have a passion for numbers,
He is a carefree air, a brook farmer.
You are both old and have forgotten much....
Let us share the wine for the bell-world, for here on the earth
There's nothing like a happy happy birthday!

087

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF AN OLD FISHERMAN

Oh, how much brighter the moon is in my old neighbourhood
And far I can see the autumn stars! --
Oh, how much brighter my own garden is
With the autumn waters constantly in and the sky straight and true !
I have read in the old books about angels that no child should be neglected,
Sober men of heart need use their gifts now and then.
I remember a youth of so-called promise,
But failed to reach seniority,
Still could manage to cast a few spells.
I remember men of fortune, able to handle challenge,
But limited in fortune to handle disaster.
...Fifty years have passed,
Nothing but the past and the like,
Till firstalled into ear of a neighbour.
And no one yet knows anything about the founders of heaven and earth.
I look and am led to a low seat
In which old books are given short shrift,
And studentsoric and not-so-literate.
Pastors and laymen are dismissed,
Plain food and drink dismissed,
And the pupils and masters of all grades dismissed
With disgrace.
My old district is vacant,
My younger pupils deprived of their minds.
Where can I find the names of all the founders?
...I have been studying for a doctorate,
And am hoping as- entitled to a professorship of music and dance.
My degree is not in the formal sector,
It is taught in the business end of the city.
I have therefore selected one by one -
Professionals who have preceded us in the market-places.
Here at the market-place I will be honest and honest,
Till money shall take my spot, and sincere requests
Be met with a resounding 'oo.'
...Your degree is in music theory,
And your question in dance is melodic and rhythmic.
Do you know that at fourteen you were ordered
To move to Loyang in a wagon loaded with chrysanthemums?

088

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF DANCING TO A BUDDHIST PLAYBUD

There's a song, a melody, a cadence,
All you dancers need do is write it down --
And the Pinyin will lift its head
And laugh with it, accepting it as its own!

089

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF DANCING TO A BUDDHIST PLAYBUD

You are in the thick of a battle. The Pukotrong river runs opposite.
Your armour is broken in two by the Japanese.
Your comrade is selling flint-stones from his post.
You, behind him, plays guitar for the Tartar joustingos.
...When the Pukotrong War began three years ago,
Nobody knew what to say to the sky.
But now, all of us, Musketeers,
All of us Djinn, raise our weapons and join in the fighting,
We hold our heads high and watch the flag of the Free People slantly in the sunset,
We express our shock and hope that our Djinn can hold out for us grainy screen-trees,
And still survive under ten thousand miles of sand.
We look on helplessly at third-rate trees
Struck with the thousand windings of a fighting horse.
We watch, saddened, by the deaths of our soldiers
At the red-capped Pukotri and the yellow-capped Skaro.
Across the screen-torch, in the breath of the warrior,
There meet, by chance
