======== SAMPLE 1 ========
olkland 

And had I won, 

With that in mind, I might

Mean to 

Be like all men: 

But not so altogether like me. 

The saddest of days, though. 
But the saddest of men. 
Hither to learn, to please, 

Is to lurk, or go: 

And have seen to-day; but not so sad 

As if I had spoiled. 

I should be glad to learn what fun. 
To learn that so long as 

As I worked as hard 

As I should have to-morrow, 

And never came to rest. 

I would come back and see the land, 

But not what it is I need see to earn. 

The barren hills were greener, 

And once, when I wished to see them, 

At least twice a year, 

At twilight, 

Drive up to us by the homing pole 

And look with interest 

Through the deep, dull snarl of the sun 

Flowers of the field, over the hill. 

At dawn, in the thin mist, 

Through the butterfly's confused rays, 
Light makes or fails, and darkness 

Stops and ceases. The dull, dark line 

Between the flowers one sees in the morning light 

Sits at my dilapidated window, 

And keeps the risk of attack 
At every step I take. 



ON A MESSAGE TO ARET LIAI 

FOR CONSTELLUS 

It is a sad sight to fly, 

Not just to land at once on a southern continent, 

And never back to my own. 

To reach that forest, I have taken 

Here by river, or rather by land, 

Where once I had been a stranger; 

And since I know not how, and still reek not 

Of home, there is always someone 

To blame; but for close kin and bad soil, 

I serve the public good. 



ON HEARING DILLERT
AFTER FAILING IN AN EXAMINATION 

The ordeal that was 

For failing to agree on the spot, 

Had brought DillERT to her knees, 

And said to her that she should take her leave, 

That she should go toward the count's business 

That had brought her to her present plight. 

And the count, so unbowed, would not let go of him! 

But he would go on his way, and would not stop till 

Fm later, after hearings to find out if he had lived, 

And if not, what next. And that, and he would go, 

And hold with bitterness all those who held lowly 

His case as against heaven and earth. 

And all law and equity were broken 

And all were ungrateful to him. 



THE TEMPLE OF THE PREMIER OF SHU

Sometimes in the tenth year of Yuan she endured an abject 

Insuficail. She strove for beauty, but could not 

Make herself slender enough to look upon, or proud enough 

To look upon her place as a symbol of virtue. 
She duked it out at age thirty-five 
And, though at Emperors downdes and vice-downdes, 
She curbed her pride at thirty-seven. 
Her body was of royal jade worth a hundred robes, 
And, though at Emperors woos and reveres, 
Her lustre and her value did not daunt 
Her if left unbridled. Her lustre 
Was an infinite stream of blood and smoke and waste hair. 
Her dignity was at stake, and no life was safe. 
If she had not spoiled the fire with a putrid yolk, 
The point of a putrid yolk could be pierce through her pride. 
The point of a putrid yolk could fatten a man's heart. 
And if lustration were not cruel, 
If set against the will of reason, 
What if it not be? 



PASTORALIZING BY ZHANG, LOVERS PARTED 
IN THE Greatest of all Forbidden Hill Robes, 
An eleven-character-regular-verse has gone by and done 
The preliminary picture
