======== SAMPLE 1 ========

I saw a white-haired man stumble from the bank. He turned round and saw me. He didn't seem to care if I was gay. He just looked at me and nodded. And then, when he was done, he called to me in Russian, saying, 'We have come to the Capital. You are to leave.' I nodded. 'You are not to leave me. You are an exile. My only duty is to you. You have to go away. You have to live with me for a while now. Let me give you a journey up the mountain. After that, let me call you by your first name: --' He took off his hat on his head --' I heard him raise his hand -- He waved it high --'then lowering it, turning to leave me, returning it to me, at his door.' --I heard you, too, at the same time. I heard you raising your hand. I doubt if my name could have been written as KARYL MARTIN.'

RAWING ON A STONE-TRIP TO CHANGJING

'I am writing this poem now, on a single stone tripod,
The course by which Yu Xin, the great master, cruelties before the Tartars in months.
Ten thousand rivers and mountains and touch the sky --
I watch on a high sared moon
The River of Stars....'
'Cut down, I see, for an early mark on the wall,
Nothing more than a last ditch effort,
Nothing done, nothing undone,
Till tomorrow, when I shall turn my matronly head.

THE HAN MONUMENT

On the third day of the fifth month, at the frontier town of Huashan, a messenger was led by a close man to the village of Wuling. Wuling, a humble grain trader, was pounding heaps of money in the brook --
The jade flakes in an old bullion door and the white rattles in a worn door.
The soldiers, all soldiers, were watching them, unaware of their gay pride.
Here in this empty city gate, in this remote valley,
In this yellow palace the royal head covers his hair in silken,
Petals are flying at dawn when the sun sets,
But soon the town is settled again by the jade offerings.
The traveller is filled with grief and with wonder
That never a true prince should visit this desert;
Yet it seems certain that though his father was a great general,
Sagacious and vain, yet prince and prince, as in the days of Wu --
There lived, for the shedding moon, lifelong friendship.

THE HOSTILE RIVER

Where the sun never sets, dark with gale,
And birds seeking the home miss the autumn ferry,
Yet lonely and desolate there is a woodsman
Who cares where his sheep have been since they left home,
How he loves old wives and his children loves his sons.
...There are clouds in the wind and a moon in the grain-fields,
While a thousand homes in one go, all of them violet-red,
As if to say, 'Come, let us join you here. We will be friends for ever.
We have heard that the lute stars are given secret to the ruler,
And all you musicians have been playing for a long time.
Now, let us sing, and we'll soon be together;
But hurry, we can't keep our voices down for long--
We have heard of other rivers having their lute-steps.

THE HOLIDAY SONG

I spent the night in the palace-cum-village of
Confucius, waiting.
Washing in the freshets of silk,
I had the honour of receiving the gayest of raindrops,
That green between the eyebrows, and down to my bare palm.
And later in the day a maid, who had just come in from school,
She opened the book-case and exposed the paper-work of the gayest girl.
She showed me holy water, a fire-bugle,
A lamp post, a light post,
A recliner's post, an entertainer's post.
She led me to a sacred lake,
To a princess' palace, in her rue des Anglais;
There she showed me the gayest girl she knew.
'Don't let her do you any harm,' she commanded, 'let her love you. If she loves you so much, she may as well be your lover.
Be gentle and respectful of her, and let her be your lover.'
...This expression, which is usually reserved for lovers of brothers and sisters,
Is not only common for men of letters and of states, but also for those who were born near the city.
Men of genius
