======== SAMPLE 1 ========
I I am an exile in the south
And lonely and wobbly in the mountain wind.
And yet, because I come from a good family,
Menting my voice against the State,
I am providing the necessary materials.
In the near future, I would be a very good singer,
Having devoted my life to songs;
But, suddenly, a dream come along the wall.
It's a mist, it's a mist on the river;
And I hear people saying and doing,
And the state cuts off my stream of sight.
I have a guitar and some drums --
Aime to the White Lady and Four Horses,
And I am singing.
I wish I could play for the White Lady
And still be a bandit,
Playing boxers, clarinetists,
Playing farmers, ponders, never quite thinking.
And yet, since I know how to play the guitar,
Why should I be less than human? --
...Oh, let me fling down my official duties,
Why should I be at the farm- shop by the river-wall?

087

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF A PRINCE DEGRADED

A slave peddler is sent north to free a girl
Doubt not that the weather will be kind?
Seed and meat are called back, and the girl born happy.
Where are we headed? Will we be able to niison and rouge?
...Last night we went out to eat meat and drank wine
Out of the blue I heard a woman in a goblet cry.
Her enraged husband saw that she was refusing to eat;
He searched the river, he tried to hear the girl,
But no sound came home.
He looked again and saw that the river was boiling,
And he searched the heights, he tried to see the girl
But nothing happened.
He turned round and saw that the river was three thousand miles away --
And he saw again that the river was fed and the animal
 Running, galloping, never needing a patron.
...Oh, if ever a savage should meet me,
What if he knocked at my door and I told him my name and address?

088

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF A PRINCE DEGRADED

Sober soldiers are sent north to guard the City of Silk
And east to receive the rain from the Spears of Heaven.
The south runs its wall, the stars are rising,
And our footprints are three hundred miles away.
But how can I bear to sweep them away?
To a walk in the Green Water, I pray.
I look for a monk with sick kin.
I look forin the spring for the sick to gather.
...Hark, ooze-tan, ooze-tan, where to go next!
Where is the quiet refuge? Where is the turmoil I
Am fleeing?
What am I going through, *******,‏(whining) ***snort, whet my hunger
And quiet my mind for the past thirty days.
O Prince of Friends, you are gone again....
Iark on hand to beleaguered trees
I am dragging pebbles back to my door.
Cicadas are neighing, they are sighing.
The cold water is sinking back at the grassy shore.
A vanished river is forgotten by the people....
Who knows if it is still alive?
...Who knows if it ever was?

089

Folk-song-styled-verse

Du Fu

A SONG OF A PRINCE DEGRADE

A solemn Six-Headed Pig is heard speaking in the evening,
With no one in the south seeing the Emperor's sail
Toward the south. "We bow, we hack, we steam,
We tip, we grow;
But, alas, who here really cares?
For us, honoured guests of the Capital,
Freedom comes with a ring.
We offer our cups of wine, we say a sad farewell,
After which we separate, without saying one word.
And snow covers the road's rim, where we left White Wolf Mountain.
...What are we thinking of, old friend?
Enough about me, gone am I again.
A snow crab is born, and the small flock small again.
A white-head salmon ages, while the bigger of the springtails hangs in the air.
A hundred nights running, I have not come back.
I think of a northern lake, dead or alive,
And I hear a bell in the morning, and the early wind in the dreary grasses.

090


