======== SAMPLE 1 ========
?
They ask me where I have been on my journey,
And I tell them I have been here by the blue-sky.
Some ask me where I have gone,
Others see me but by the floating sun.
...Having drank my aip, I put away my wine.
I put away my own thoughts
And bow to them only as instruments.
...I would stand beside them chanting,
I would hasten them to long steps....
I would loosen my hair in the air and draw them slowly
And slowly draw them all the way to the surface --
With the notes of a bamboo wheel slowly turning green.
I would slowly lead them, slowly slow,
Slowly slow them forever,
Slowly but surely letting them pass.
Slowly, but surely,
Bring them forward, throw them aside,
Let them pass through the next gate....
The deeper I think about this part of the world,
The colder I am to eat, to drink,
To a homing purpose behind my steps.

028

Five-character-ancient-verse

Qiu Yi

A BOAT IN THE CAPITAL

Slain by wars and depressions, the pitiable taro is growing old.
The old trees no longer provide food,
And the thin pines no longer help but die --
With the rapidity of a river, dragging its current.
...What shall I do but be an old tree by my door?
...For years I have been tending the pitiable animal,
Wolves now biting at our roots,
And pines that were once his favorite prey,
Now are prickly and withering at the nape of the neck....
There are no more pines by the wall beside us,
And, like the old pines, are piercing my heart.
...I lean forward, my brush stroke his green mandible;
But what is to be found
In a world of pinch and pwny breadcrumbs?
Something needs to be said for the old champ....
For instance, what is the use in pointing out that pines are not petals to be snapped?
Panting, I dust my coat, then take a look around.
On the sandy shore lie rough pebbles --
Tons of dust under the lofty paws.
On sandy shales lie dark green volcanic rock.
On sandy pines lie ancient stone shelters....
Over the sand dusted with moss and with old moss new defences
Were strewn midnight with flags of the Qin People;
And at twilight, facing this north pass,
Herein cloud and bloodied grass meet.
...My men, on the other hand,
Had their ranks with the advancing troops,
And, since the slope was cleared, their arrows were constantly on the move!
Yet the first danger they might face was from the south.
The slope had disappeared at the western pass,
And suddenly, behind the raised fort,
There burst out a fire and over a hill;
And all the while the people of Qin were down dead!
...There were pillboxes full of pill aplenty,
And the fortified City of Yan was at the gates.
Yet the very first shot was stopped by a resounding sound!
...Then, standing in the dusk by a low gate,
And paying their respects,
The soldiers, following after them,
Came to be rather reserved
And would rather show off their weapons than bear them.
...Though they might have been more kind to us than to death,
These rusty drums hasten the death of ten thousand men!

029

Five-character-ancient-verse

Qiwu Qian

THE TEMPLE OF THE PREMIER OF SHU

Who built the temple at Liangante in the first year of Kaiyuan,
And how thus Yi Yuxi came to humankind
Is a mystery to this day.
The upper chambers were exalted,
The heavens were open to the public,
And the Creator gave human sexuality
To any man his or her wayman kin.
But women in the West had no husband and wives,
And the male and the female made love on the cave-tops,
Until the emission of an enzyme led a needle to a fish's heart.
Once it was in the girl's urine;
And out came the generations to come....
Now it is the natural turn of girls,
With long, flowing hairpins that keep the dawn in her sight.

030

Five-character-ancient-verse

Yamahiro Ikeda

IN CONNECTION with the culture of the Stone Age,
How do you sodomize an immortal being
And still be an individualist while still under the earth?
The earth is your home, your temple;
