======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 nor in the three rivers.
Yet what makes you of home, what makes your master happy.

096

Folk-song-styled-verse

Li Bai

ENDLESS YEARNING I

"I am endlessly yearning
To be in Baok Sha.
...Insects hum of autumn by the gold brim of the well;
A thin frost glistens like little mirrors on my cold mat;
The high lantern flickers; and. deeper grows my longing.
I lift the shade and, with many a sigh, gaze upon the moon,
Single as a flower, centred from the clouds.
Above, I see the blueness and deepness of sky.
Below, I see the greenness and the restlessness of water....
Heaven is high, earth wide; bitter between them flies my sorrow.
Can I dream through the gateway, over the mountain?
Endless longing
Breaks my heart."

097

Folk-song-styled-verse

Li Bai

ENDLESS YEARNING II

"The sun has set, and a mist is in the flowers;
And the moon grows very white and people sad and sleepless.
A Zhao harp has just been laid mute on its phoenix holder,
And a Shu lute begins to sound its mandarin-duck strings....
Since nobody can bear to you the burden of my song,
Would that it might follow the spring wind to Yanran Mountain.
I think of you far away, beyond the blue sky,
And my eyes that once were sparkling
Are now a well of tears.
...Oh, if ever you should doubt this aching of my heart,
Here in my bright mirror come back and look at me!"

098

Folk-song-styled-verse

Li Bai

THE HARD ROAD

Pure wine costs, for the golden cup, ten thousand coppers a flagon,
And a jade plate of dainty food calls for a million coins.
I fling aside my food-sticks and cup, I cannot eat nor drink....
I pull out my dagger, I peer four ways in vain.
I would cross the Yellow River, but ice chokes the ferry;
I would climb the Taihang Mountains, but the sky is blind with snow....
I would sit and poise a fishing-pole, lazy by a brook --
But I suddenly dream of riding a boat, sailing for the sun....
Journeying is hard,
Journeying is hard.
There are many turnings --
Which am I to follow?....
I will mount a long wind some day and break the heavy waves
And set my cloudy sail straight and bridge the deep, deep sea.

099

Seven-character-regular-verse

Li Bai

DOWN ZHONGNAN MOUNTAIN
TO THE KIND PILLOW AND BOWL OF HUSI

Down the blue mountain in Feng district
You have found your home, your boat is about to pick you up;
And now on the height we hear a bell --
The wind is beating at us, beating at our ears,
And we see only the dark clouds;
We hear only the low wind rustling grasses
Under the quiet river;
There's no one in our spot;
And for all we know, he is back with his men --
Just saying his regular old man's name.

100

Seven-character-regular-verse

Li Bai

DOWN ZHONGNAN MOUNTAIN
TO THE KIND PILLOW AND BOWL OF SHU

In the same river, on the same farm,
There meet by chance, two or three years,
That one morning they have to turn back,
The other because she is so sick.
...It's a fine blue fishing-water, like the rest
Of autumn and spring, never flooded, never washed up;
And the farmers all are returning what they have,
Washing their fields and burning them,
And the owners of the fields are all returning what they had,
To make our dishes and our cups good.

101

Seven-character-regular-verse

Li Bai

DOWN ZHONGNAN MOUNTAIN

TO SHANYINI DISTRICT

In a little boat left from the village,
We have heard that the Jade Spring there has kept --
And we remember the lonely murmur of it,
Since the river snakes keep day from entering
And the mountain gulls have gone grey....
While we wait for the next boat,
There are those who have no boat and who crawl up
To where the water is cold and the wind is blowing
