======== SAMPLE 1 ========
LDI RESIDENCE IN SPRING

The moon illumines a thousand hills
And cloudy waters flow up the River of Stars.
On a cloudy day you will see angels in the clouds
And on a cloudy moon you will see giants
And the water that makes the Clouds flow like heaven....
Yet in spite of all this happiness there comes a murmur!

152

Five-character-regular-verse

R. Chang Song

THE SECRET OF LIGHT

On a warm autumn day the trees close for me
And a wind, bringing me sad dreams,
Whose pure and quick-witted rays soon land on my cold feet.
I rein in my chair, watching the melancholy river-climbs
When it enters the old forest-village at Hanyang.
The deep river-climbs lead me to a low spot
Where the sad hibiscus lives and only despises men of high rank.
...If only I could be as pure and as complete as him as often as I may.
But I have learned to live by a very fast-moving tree.
Heart and soul are lost at the pines,
While the Emperor steers me toward the city gate.

153

Five-character-regular-verse

Li Qi

A MESSAGE TO CENSOR JIAI

With a sigh I say:
The Emperor, with your aid of a poisonous weed,
Makes the world a little sadder by his sodden slaughter.
He smites an eye with a stick, he smooshes his clothes with hemlock,
He smooshes his horses' hoofs with horse's hoofs....
He smooshes his horses' chariots with chariot's hoofs...
But that is only the art of the Emperor!
I say to myself: Who has the power to frighten the most resolute mind?
Or is it that the heart craves?

154

Five-character-regular-verse

Sikong Shu

INSCRIBED ON THE HUAYIN AT WANG CHU

At the Ninth-month the Imperial Wizard KINDLE A POEM
SETTING ON ON A FLAG STRAIGHT
IN A FIELD OF MEN WITH WALKERS WHEELING

Out on the sea's outer rim blowing with sunset,
We behold, through a mist hung with sunset,
A thousand floating cities, with their roofs painted with green;
And then a thousand shining towns, with their roofs full of officials....
...Where are those giants, who once were the rulers,
Are now the vassals of China?....
Oh, how can people fear them so that they can assemble?

155

Five-character-regular-verse

Li Qi

THE MOON AT THE WANG CHU TA MESSAGE ON DIPLOMAT

With the slow shadow of a lense upon the moon,
A MOON OF CHANGS IN THE RIVER OF CYPRESS
ATTACKS

Sunset drifts over the sandy mountains,
Through dense fog its shadow grows worse by the day,
In the bare greenery of China's vast river;
But still the wound is close at the vest;
The hungry are fastening homes,
The helpless are helpless with cold to their bones....
Through the trees one by one the men close in,
Whom strength in body and in hearing respects;
But also of an animal that can hear speech.
It is certain that whoever listens to these leaders,
Is one with the Liu brothers.
Their faces grow sad and sadoldered,
Like ants who have eaten their way out of the nest.
...The Eighth-month wind is changing the colour of sky,
Adds a new element of purple to flowers,
And the mountain snowploughs add a new element,
Which will hasten the end of the world....
This new moon will freshen the old one with dew,
Which will magnify the good will of the Emperor.
...Under cloudy mountains winds are grey clouds;
And under sunset white clouds,
Which leave only death and dust....
They leave behind them grasses that might break the invigorating heart,
And bones that might make the bones of a warrior sick.
They leave behind them no trace of their former glory.
They hide in the quiet hills and the quiet mountains
The bones of men who were fierce on the Nine Extremities,
Told here only sorrow, and not like-
"What does it matter, little one?....
They lie at the foot of high walls,
Sitting at the straw-huts that are the old way.
...In spite of the great
