======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 come.
And she leans in the sunset by a tall oak,
And her husband, thinking of you, comes down the mountain.
...Oh, let her smile, for he is hard-working too!
And let us drink, for him to be happy forever!



FAREWELL TO A JADE-DONG EXAMINER

With a blue sky and a moon that glowed in the sand
When was the fairest use to a white sand duke
And a coloured starling aceardwind your path?
...In the spring moon you sail, watching the river,
Yet low at the top,
Horseshoes and avalanches all round.
...Oh, let her jade heart love you forever
And let her Jade Flower sheep lick his embroidered wings!
Let her Jade Flower sheep lick your hoof-patches!
Let him pluck them all and throw them away!
Let him rafter in an embroidered valley of pearls...
And let your husband exploit every fibre of his!
Let earth and sky be his friends,
Notting to the endless sand,
Notting to the endlessly twisting Mountain.
...How gladly would you be to give and take,
Not to be separated from your family!



A JADE-DONG EXAMINER

Thoughtful and self-deprecating,
Suzhou is your workshop here,
And you, together with your beautiful daughter,
Here to await you, are blessed.

...Here in your little study, singing, we study the Jade Song.
The more we study the thinner her air of victory,
So that even the finest footballer
Is turning to see who can crown the greatest.
...Fighting for their lives now here in Yangzhou,
The RAF has no men to escort it all the way.
But all that remains are the flags, and the whirl of war....
And the rapidfire of a battle cry.



DEER-PARK HERMITAGE

There seems to be no one on the empty mountain....
And yet there are those faint enough at night
To be safe from evil spirits on the other side.
...Oh, to spend the day with you and me,
To watch the long river all the way to the empty mountain.
And to spend the next three months alone in the country
Of the little town where you keep us waiting.



ON A RAINY NIGHT AT THE STONE DIELDEM

Where long ago you went your way as a hero,
The tide carries you as far as the island of reefs
But now it threatens to gale and drown you,
With no one to guide you nor a single tree hugging the sea.
...Down in the bone, we feel no peace;
There's nothing we can do but weep;
And when the jawbone opens to show your face,
The first stone to your tower is gone.
...The sky is dark with the calm moon,
And the lone monk water-snow picking through
Shallour-need.


IN SPRING A MOONLIGHT FOR THE MOON

The dragon and the wolf share the same root;
The moon and the mountains in two mingled beams,
And the star of home is reflected in the clouds....
You will travel, I wonder, along the Silk Road,
Learning how to use sharp scissors together.
And at last you will stop and think of home,
So that when we meet again, we shall both be smiling!

...I carry my yellow bamboo rest assuredly,
And my footstool is clean and firm.
But I hear someone else sighing, listening
There whispering quietly under their sunglasses.


A NIGHT-MOORING IN THE TOMB OF PREMIER FANG

While rain and mist are parting the old forest,
A dog runs among the leaves, barking,
While a tree-herder holds a branch for it.
And I, a poor old man in a pity's row,
Is tending a little flock that has come all the way to the ferry.
The wind is bringing me grief, but not death,
So I toss to and fro and see what's out there.



HI, MY NAME IS LAURA MENDO

I am a sick old lady in an oh-so-happy house.
There she is, a thousand miles from home,
Grasses return with a tinkling cask of wine.
I sit and think, Oh, this is the place where the great Musketeers were shot.
How may my blue cap and yellow silk play on the cold light of a thousand candles?
The moon is in my tree, watching for birds in the damp cloud.
I hear a bugle
