======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 snow snow in the clear moon,
I hear a bugle sounding its cord at twilight,
As I watch the river upside-down, dark around us.
...monkeys and birds are flying under the Mountain,
While I watch the Bright Star make its final turn.
...I climb to the top. I think of my home, where I shot and died,
And I wonder why I waited.
Why me and my mount
When spring-floods cut across the plain,
When mango-birds have few friends in warm weather,
I wait for the spring to pass and then take my wine glass.
...At first I cannot help smiling,
Wiping away my shyness at the birds and trees I pass.





I climb to a height of more than 120 m. paces.
I check my watch; no sound; nothing happening.
The sky is dark with bewitched clouds.
...I have learned to hope that the war-winds-will-never-land our men on the western end of the South.
I climb to a height of down through the mists;
As snow-peak winds quicken with rain;
And lofty through the mountain gates with flying butterflies,
The monkeys galloping meadows with our faces into the hills.
At dusk I dismount beside your side,
Strode to the finish.



How to Warsaw

How to Guadalcanal:

In yellow scabbards, in long lines to the wall,
We hold in our hands the hopes of spring;
And around us the words, "This is where you had your share of,
And this is where you left us,
And this is where you went,"
And we meet and fall in love,
We lie together by the waterfall for the winter;
Then he tells us his lover died young,
And that night their lives are different....
We hold hands and kiss, hoping for tears;
Then he casts off his lute and plays the trumpet.



How to avenge a person's place

What can be better than riding a horseback?
—An old friend of mine, coming from war,
Was sent to White Wolf, an empire now at peace,
And friendship lasted ten days in the mountainside.



My Trip to the North Star

A frost-rain has come down from the South Wind,
Birds are flying homeward over the lake,
And the ferry-boat moans in the North Star.
Where is my great-grandson? and where can I find my riverboat singsong?
My Holy Mountain is at peace, old friend.
I sing along, as if I are listening.


Down by the river they are still waiting,
Not one of them has found home.
I imagine those red berries and green plums that are on the porcelain shell
And the families that have gone through so much,
And how anxious they are to find our boat.
...After a night in the mountains of Jingde place
They have come back, with raids and hardships,
Home with them from their exile from Yueh.
Oh, how glad I must be to make these trips!
But what am I good for in this world, with my few clothes?
The greatest rivers and the loneliest lakes are required
To be dazzled by barbaric scenery.
Why haven't I sunk as low as I did?


Down by the river they are still waiting
Still waiting for my boat,
Not one of them has come forward yet.
...The land of plentiful lakes and rivers is now full of people
And the bones of great men are strewn all about the town.
...Mounted men and wild horses, tonight and tomorrow
Will be the first to be pardoned.


A Long Night's Journey, also Called the White Ferry,
(A Song of Courtyard Flowers,)
A Car ofgo, a Guiding Tree,
A Tripod Car,
A Tripod drawn from the dust,
Turning at twilight from Hanyang.
...I stretch out my hand toward the west,
As I did when I was an exile here:
Southward forever, never returning.
I am poorer tomorrow than Iraqi,
More likely to sickness to come back again.
...I who played chess with the great Premier
Amnes me to be a man of few moves,
But I am much the poorer I am of late.
O chosen friends, together!
O chosen friends, together!
For I am gone, now, from the north,
As far as the eye can see;
And my beloved Du, who is living under house arrest,
Reads while I drive him round the turn of the roads.
...The magistrate comes running with his
