======== SAMPLE 1 ========
lect,
I listen, even to my own old melodies.
What now to say of my home elsewhere?


A MOONLIGHT NIGHT

Flushing with hot coals,
I would close the window and weep an infinite dry
Wine, but for the cold moon....
Oh, how I dread, before I pour you the wine,
How far I plunge myself
To drink alone and to sleep rough- sleeping with no music.

...In the bright moonlight, close by a hand-jar
Stirring with moonlight the tears out of hearts,
I have brushed my breast and my chin and my cheek-seams
Told the truthfulness of the one word:
"Water.""Sea."
"Rain."
I lay watching the river- waves for a while,
But heard wind and rain come from the mountains.
...A MESSAGE TO CENSOR YAN

"To the Yellow Gate House the Leman Sutra studio
Has sung many a song concerning you;
The lute has pined for you;
The harp has faltered and is broken;
You cannot breathe in the space of five hundred miles.
...Oh, at last I may accept your pledge
That I may give back my life, to sing your praises."


TO GENERAL ZHON GAN

"Master, you have achieved Great Honored Snake Gland,
Contrary to the Will of the Yin and Yang Dynasties.
Since the Tartars could not support a strong army,
The commanders of the Chinese and the Russians,
Commanded that the best weapons should reach the southern mainland;
And, if they could, how could they manage the tide?
Since the grasses have grown long since the battle,
The commanders of the Chinese have constantly searched the earth
For weapons to restore their old fortunes.
The Tartar chieftain's expedition west of the Yizhou River
In an impenetrable sky, searching for grasses,
Buried by the thick ditches that run east to west,
The discoveries made when the world began, have continued,
For thousands of years, to be sure, just as the real things.
...You will return, I hold, in your hand forever,
And I will endeavor, as in your memory,
To understand, through your songs, the ways of the ancient world.



A MESSAGE TO FENG ZHU

"Master, you have mastered the art of warfare;
You can throw down as little as a spear,
You can hold a sword in both hands and use it as a whip;
You can throw down from the sky banners and figures,
As few as a few drops of blood;
You can hold a point of iron on your staff and fire it,
With open and closed eyes, at will, to inflict deadly violence.
...Though you may seem short in armour and thick in iron,
Just look at how sharp and regular it is!...
There is little blood left in the river,
The sharp edge of a knife cuts the heart like a knife.
...To inflict such a grievous injury as this
Must be experienced by the whole of the human race.

THERE IS ONLY ONE - THE WANDERING CLASS

There is only the wanderer, there is only the wandering.

LOOKING AT THE MOON
AND THINKING OF ONE FAR AWAY

Since the world has lost its way with wintry weather,
Monkeys and birds are frequenting the open fields....
Wildgeese from the Yellow Gate overran the plains,
And wildgeese from the River of Stars overran the plains;
When a season is lost in the glories of space,
Wildgeese return again and again, hungry,
If the day be not long enough for them.
...Of all mankind doomed to wander on the golly land,
Only a few are likely to be as fortunate as us warriors.
...As the heavens stretch out their might, so too must human hearts
Seem keenly focused on the moment,
When a hundred of the world's foremost writers
Erected here by stone-faced experts,
The greatest of them were South Arabia's premier writers
And of them came the greatest talents;
And they established that the more perfect the heart,
Which allowed all things to flourish.
...To kill was harsh to good fortune,
But to cleave to was harsh to good fortune.
To cleave to was even to cleave to an ax.
...Whether you look to me for advice or rather for my own profit,
I will never try to sway you any way of the cold sword.
...In my old age you gave your lives for it;
They have been a
