======== SAMPLE 1 ========
 temple of peace,
With its twelve scripturally-significant characters only a trinity among them growsl.
At twilight, from a lonely heart,
Tall flags can be seen rattling on the wall,
While lonely shadows are flashing on the dewless sky.
The long road ahead will be full of new hardship,
With, late in the nights, brief intervals of dream.
Lakka-trees rip at ease at dawn,
And Wuzu tribes are mute when morning bell tolls.
Fishes wane, drowsiness is their fault;
The bird's path is a murky one through the mountains;
There are only flowery lullaby-quatrainings, unheard of at night.
...At dawn, from a coil of green manganese,
Radio plays, temples are shaken by dreams.
...Who told you that letting your ear to a wanderer
Is the art of the pothard? -- in a trick of the light,
Distillations of the sun.


Lakka-leaves are mounded in the morning,
In the mountain-plant an incense-beat grows thin,
The sash is broken through by insect or plant attack.
...As the grasses have knocked at his door,
Far away he has come, from the woods, home.
Utterly the desert, the wildgeese,
Lest of good men's vain hope he should perish,
The poor time was more fruitful with the more famous guests.


THE TEMPLE OF SU WU

When he was a child, care was taken of a tree
Which was worshipped only by the incense-bugle.
Now he calls to his elder sister,
Whose hair whitens with the blood of a unicorn,
Who was the firmest of the Emperor's disciples
When he and his sister, by his initials, WEI,
Two thousand years' residence, yet little accomplished
Shoe-maker of gods and devils.



A SONG OF LU MOUNTAIN AT FENGJI STATION

There once was a mountain-god, or at least a spirit,
Who visited the hearts of men and then died.
You ask me when I am coming. I have no need.
I remember, when I was a child, your mountain-tower was destroyed
In a great earthquake.
...By the reign of Lu Mountain so large that its foundations were shaken by
Shines, many a lady said, "What are you thinking of,
Up where the Eastern River meets the sky?"



ON HEARING A FLUTE AT FENGJI STATION

The ground in the temple, covered with the crescent-shaped shell,
Shines lightly with the Holy Ghost.
Theweight of the lute-string are floating lutes,
And the strings grow gong in the air while the sunset fades.
...Down in the forest foraging-fire, wildgeese fling shade at us,
We spot a solitary acrobatsye in the midning dawn;
Then, speaking in a low, hushed voice, we're led
Back again to the fading temple, to the song
Of a lone wildgeese, again and again.


A FRIEND'S RETREAT

A greenseer from western Wu,
An unreliable scholar,
With little or no hearing, he tries to tell the
Thing his master missed for a long time.
And sometimes he never is with his body so near
And sometimes to the stove and the fire-whisperer.


A RETREAT AT A BORDER-FORTRESS

Cock-crow, the oriole carp,
Roused at sunset from a cold night's water.
On the wall of the barbarian's home, bare of matting,
Little by little his lonely heart is singing.
He is passing by a little way down the mountain --
But he comes across a way out of the country by
And where a landlady mistook him for a person,
The wildgeese back from the North Star return with their meat.


GENERAL GE SHU

This constellation, with its seven high stars,
Is Ge Shu lifting his sword in the night:
And no more barbarians, nor their horses, nor cattle,
Dare to look toward the eastward.
...Lie, abreast of battle, at a stretch of rock and thorn,
Traveling at a stretch to the City of Silk,
Be wary of those who linger at the fork of the road.


A SONG OF CHANGGAN I

"Tell me, who taught you?," says the old master of chivalry,
"How to play the lute-string and
